[Collins COBUILD]

Home     CobuildDirect     Catalogue     Word Features

The Bank of English

What is it?

The Bank of English is a collection of samples of modern English language
held on computer for analysis of words, meanings, grammar and usage. In
linguistics and lexicography such a collection is termed a corpus.

How big is it?

In October 2000 the latest release of the corpus amounted to 415 million
words and it continues to grow with the constant addition of new material.
Research at COBUILD over the last fifteen years has shown that very large
samples of text are necessary for good linguistic study, since the
vocabulary of English is so large (well over half a million different
words) and there is such variety in current usage. In order to draw
statistically valid conclusions from computerised analysis of a corpus,
researchers need to have adequate data samples at their disposal.

What goes into it? And why?

This huge collection is composed of a wide range of different types of
writing and speech. It contains samples of the English language from
hundreds of different sources. Written texts come from newspapers,
magazines, fiction and non-fiction books, brochures, leaflets, reports,
letters, and so on. The spoken word is represented by transcriptions of
everyday casual conversation, radio broadcasts, meetings, interviews and
discussions, etc. The material is up- to-date, with the majority of texts
originating after 1990. Taken together the Bank of English provides
objective evidence about the English which most people read, write, speak
and hear every day of their lives.

How is it updated and developed?

New data is acquired continuously. Texts are received in electronic form
(since most of the publishing world nowadays uses computer technology in
producing printed material) and then processed to bring them into a
standard format. Some books are scanned using OCR software. Magazines and
ephemera are keyboarded. Audio recordings of speech are transcribed
directly onto computer by specialist trained staff and we work in
collaboration with other universities to collect new spoken recordings and
transcriptions. The corpus includes millions of words of transcribed speech
from the BBC World Service radio broadcasts, and the American National
Public Radio. The mix and variety of texts represented in the Bank of
English is kept under constant review and new sources are introduced to
maintain the balance of the material so that it reflects the mainstream of
current English today.

When was it founded, how, why, by whom?

The Bank of English was launched in 1991 by COBUILD (a division of
HarperCollins Publishers) and The University of Birmingham. Since 1980
COBUILD, which is based within the School of English at Birmingham
University, has been collecting a corpus of texts on computer for
dictionary compilation and language study. In 1991 HarperCollins decided on
a major initiative to increase the scale of the corpus to 200 million
words, to form the basic data resource for a new generation of
authoritative language reference publications.

What is it used for?

Lexicographers and linguists working at COBUILD in Birmingham and
HarperCollins dictionaries department in Glasgow have workstations on their
desks giving them sophisticated analysis software for accessing the corpus.
They can search for patterns of word combination, check word frequencies,
see examples of all the uses of particular words and analyse these results
so that the information which is recorded in dictionaries and other
reference works is authoritative and backed up by hard evidence wherever
possible. Academic linguists, language teachers, translators and students
can use the Bank of English as a basic resource for their studies and
professional activity. At the University of Birmingham, for example,
language teachers from around the world who are gaining post- graduate or
post-experience qualifications can use the corpus to deepen their
understanding of how English is used in real life and to enhance their
classroom teaching of vocabulary and grammar.

What might it be used for?

In the Information Technology age, computers need to process language more
and more: word-processors, spelling-checkers, machine translation systems,
computerised information services are examples of new technology in which
language is a key component. The Bank of English provides data about
English words and grammar which is proving to be very useful for improving
these high-tech systems. Spelling checkers for example currently cannot
usually identify incorrect spellings which happen to form another valid
English word ("She thanked him and than left.."). Using statistical
probabilities derived from the Bank of English, the computer program could
predict that the word "than" would be better replaced with "then".

How does the BoE make for better dictionaries?

The information derived from the Bank of English can improve almost every
aspect of dictionary making. Does anyone ever use the word "gay" in its
older sense nowadays? Call up all instances of the word and find out. Is it
correct to say "different from" or should it be "different to"? The corpus
will show which form is most common and further analysis will show whether
one form is used more in writing and the other in speech. If a new car is
described as "cheap", does this carry a negative connotation? What about a
new brand of chocolate bar? The Bank of English will show whether the word
"cheap" is simply neutral or whether it carries a definite disparaging
meaning. Which technical terms should be included in a general-purpose
dictionary? The BoE will yield frequency figures for terms, so that those
which sometimes appear in magazines and newspapers can be distinguished
from those which the layman is never likely to encounter. It is almost
impossible to answer these questions without evidence to hand. Many people
will have opinions about these points, but when it comes to committing
language information to print in a dictionary we believe that we should
take account of the wealth of data which the Bank of English provides about
our language. Many of the innovative features in the latest edition of
Collins COBUILD English Dictionary for Advanced Learners are possible only
because of the analysis that we have carried out of millions of examples of
words in use across a range of up-to-date texts.

Can I use this resource?

If you want a simple demonstration of how a corpus can highlight patterns
of word usage and meaning, go to our free Concordance Demonstration and
Collocation Demonstration pages. There you can see how words and phrases
are actually used in real data. If you need access to a large English
corpus for research purposes then you can subscribe to our CobuildDirect
service to login and use the corpus analysis software we have developed.

